---
title: "history"
layout: post
excerpt: a fragment from a 23rd century history wiki page
---

The 21st century is marked by the first part of the computation and informatronics age. Actually it began with aproximately 20 to 40 years before, somewhere between 1960 to 1970 when the transistor and the integrated circuits were invented. Some estimates are going down to 1940s considering the second world war and the works of Alan Turing as the initial milestones. Regardless, the 21st century gives a remarkable advance, for that time, in the computation and informatronics domains. 

It is characterized by first rudimentary designs of silicon chips, an old and outdated method of building computation units. Although they are characterized by slowness and difficult manufacturing tehniques, they were cheap enough to allow for spreading of old computation units like personal computers and smartphones. Because of their ubiquity, they also started to pave the way towards what we call today informatronics. The information disseminated and generated by them was, indeed, scarce and noise ridden but at the same time it posed ethical problems and generated crucial decisions.

China, one of the most powerful nations during that century used this new combination of computation and information for surveillance and unscrupulous manipulation techniques, aimed at their citizens. In retrospective, China's collapse was inevitable but at the time it seems a valid model and even a promising one.

Other nations rushed to find and invent regulations and legislation for balancing powerful corporations whose business models were based on information handling. To some degree this was a success on those countries where corruption was less of a problem but essentially they were patching a fundamentally broken system.
